The COMSATS University Islamabad (CUI), formerly known as COMSATS Institute of Information Technology (CIIT), is a public university in Pakistan. It is a multi-campus university with its principal seat located in Islamabad. The university was established by the Commission on Science and Technology for Sustainable Development in the South (COMSATS) in 1998, while its first charter was granted by the Government of Pakistan in August 2000.
Dr. S. M. Junaid Zaidi was the Founder Rector of the university and continued to serve the university till March 2017. Prof. Dr. Raheel Qamar assumed charge of the office of Rector in March 2017. It was envisioned as Pakistan’s first exclusive Institute of Information Technology. Previously, its name was COMSATS Institute of Information Technology (CIIT), which was transformed into a full fledged university called the COMSATS University Islamabad (CUI) by an Act of Parliament in April 2018.
The university was ranked among top 250 Asian Universities by QS University Rankings in 2014 and nationally it is ranked top-most in Computer Sciences and IT category and 1st overall in the country according to NatureIndex. It is also a member of Association of Commonwealth Universities. Its main campus, located in Islamabad, has over 8,500 students and 30,000 more students in its 6 satellite campuses. 
Its student body also includes international students from over 9 countries. It has 18 departments which combined offer 97 degree programs and has since inception produced over 250 PhDs. It has also established the country's first ever Student Startup Business Center (SSBC) to support and promote entrepreneurship and innovation in its academic environment.
COMSATS university is a multi-campus university. Apart from the main campus in Islamabad, the university also has sub-campuses located in Lahore, Attock, Vehari, Abbottabad, Wah and Sahiwal.CUI virtual campus was established in July 2008 and started its regular function in January 2012. The campus was established in offices, laboratories and studios located in Islamabad having approximately 20,000 sq. ft. covered area. 
State-of-the-art servers, dedicated PERN bandwidth, as well as latest audiovisual equipment, was acquired to set up laboratories, studios and data centre. Virtual campus started its first academic session in Fall 2012 offering four undergraduate level degree programs in computer science and management science subjects